TOTAL TIME: 1 HOUR 15 MINS 
PREP TIME: 50 MINS COOK 
TIME: 25 MINS

INGREDIENTS:

1 pound sweet potatoes, peeled
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1/2 teaspoon garlic powder
1/2 teaspoon smoked paprika
1/2 teaspoon freshly-cracked black pepper
fine sea salt, to taste

DIRECTIONS:

Slice your sweet potatoes into long, thin strips, about 1/4-inch wide.  It’s important that the fries are uniformly sized for even cooking.  Add the fries to a large bowl of cold water and soak for at least 30 minutes (or up to overnight).
Preheat the oven to 425°F.  Line a large baking sheet (or two medium baking sheets*) with parchment paper, or mist with cooking spray.  Set aside.
Drain the fries, rinse out and dry your bowl of water, then blot dry the fries with a clean towel.
Add the fries back to the clean bowl**.  Then drizzle evenly with the olive oil, and toss until they are evenly coated.
In a separate small bowl, whisk together the cornstarch, garlic powder, smoked paprika and black pepper until combined.  Sprinkle the mixture evenly over the bowl of fries, then toss until the fries are evenly coated and the cornstarch has soaked into the oil.
Spread the fries out in an even layer on the prepared baking sheet.  Be sure that the fries aren’t overlapping, or else they will not cook evenly.
Bake for 15 minutes.  Then remove pan from oven, and take the time to flip each fry with a spatula.  Rearrange so that the fries are evenly spaced and not overlapping again.  Then bake for 10-15 more minutes, or until the fries are crispy and have begun to brown a bit on the tips.
Transfer the baking sheet to a cooling rack, sprinkle with your desired amount of salt, then let the fries rest for 5 minutes.  Serve warm.

*If you need to spread the fries out between two baking sheets, be sure to switch their positions on the top and bottom oven shelves at the halfway point when you flip the fries.

**Or you can do this step in a large ziplock bag, if you prefer, which makes the fries a bit easier to toss with the cornstarch mixture.
